+++
title = "A Lap Around Scotland with My Mom"
date = 2018-04-03T15:07:07+12:00
author = "Andrew O'Neill"
publishDate = 2018-04-17
trip_date = 2017-06-27
featured_image = ""
categories = ["journal"]
countries = ["scotland", "uk"]
series = ["uk"]
tags = []
draft = true
+++

While we were travelling in England, we convinced my Mom, Wende, that
she had to join us.  That what we were doing was too fun to miss out
on.  Actually, it didn't take much convincing.  Anyway, Wende and Dan
decided they would join us for a bike adventure.  <!--more-->

For us that set a deadline for our trip in Ireland. We now had
somewhere we actually needed to be at a certain time. Fortunately we
planned enough to make it in time. We just didn't know what would
happen on our way.

We woke up early on the June 27th to catch a ferry from Belfast to
Cairnryan.  The ferry was a little farther and took us longer than we
expected to get there.  I started to freak out a little about being
late and not meeting my Mom (who didn't have any way to contact us).
Little did I know that in the last half mile of the road to the ferry
my tire would be punctured for the hundredth time.  I send Vicki ahead
to secure our spots on the ferry and hopefully hold them for long
enough for me to make it.  While running down the road pushing my 80lb
bike I missed the sign for cars to turn and accidentally went down the
road for trucks.  When I got to the station the security guard was
very confused.  I told her about the flat tire and she said that the
direction was back quite a way.  I asked if she'd help me lift my bike
over the guard rail so I could cut straight to the terminal.  She
agreed and then was shocked when she realized how heavy my bike
actually was.  After jumping the rail I saw Vicki and pushed the bike
over to her.

We also hadn't realized that getting the bikes on the ferry would
require a ton of paperwork.  Much more than when we went to Ireland at
least.  After filling out a bunch of forms and paying all the fees we
rolled our bikes on the ferry and locked them in a crew room in the
lower area.

The ferry ride was much more pleasant than our previous one.  No one
felt any sea sickness and we got there pretty quick as well.  After
arriving, we set to fixing the puncture.  Then we rode south to
Stranraer.  Of course it was pouring rain and we were completely
soaked.  We rode first to the train station to center ourselves, then
went off to find something to eat and warm us up.  We settled on a tea
shop and stripped off our wet jackets and had some tea and scones.
When it was time to go we headed back to the train station and ought
some tickets to Glasgow.

When we got to Glasgow we set off for the Hotel/Apartment.  Wende,
left a note with the receptionist that they had arrived and gone out
to look around the city.  We took our stuff up to the room and waited
until they were back.  It was so nice to see them.  The last time we
saw them we were dropping off Oscar and preparing for the journey.  We
decided to go out for a good dinner to prepare us for the upcoming
challenge of biking around Scotland.

We went to some restaurant started by Jamie Oliver or some famous TV
chef.  The food, wine, and company made it an excellent night.  After
dinner we walked back to the apartment.  Vicki and I were exhausted
from our long day of biking and travelling.  Wende and Dan were not
tired at all.  The jet lag and excitement from being somewhere new
must have given them some energy because they decided to go out and
hit the town.  From what I remember they said they went to a small
casino and had a few whiskies.  I'm not sure what time they got back
we were fast asleep.

In the morning, we all got up and made some breakfast, checked out,
and were ready to hit the road.  Wende and Dan had hired (rented in
American) some bikes from a local shop.  They were basic road bikes
with a rack for panniers.  We first rode back to that shop so they
could leave their luggage.  I bought them some water bottles and got
some more spare tubes.  Then we headed northwest toward the first
destination, Balloch.

We hadn't really planned much.  Wende had made a reservation at
Pitlochry so we chose a route that would get us there.  After cycling
through England Vicki and I were pretty familiar with the national
cycle routes.  We planned to follow route 7 from Glasgow all the way
to Inverness.  The first day was pretty easy.  A walk in the park for
Vicki, Wende, and I, and Dan (non-biker) seemed unphased as well.  The
ride out of Glasgow was not that exciting, pretty urban.  We took a
small break for lunch at a little coffee shop.  The rest of the ride
was nicer.  The route moved away from the urban areas and got out into
the wilderness.  We arrived in Balloc between 3-4PM. We first tried to
find a place at a campsite.  The only one in town only accepted
caravans though.  We ended up staying at an inn on the main road.

Wende and Dan went out for a walk around the area.  They took some
pictures of the lake and castle. Vicki and I watched tv and drank a
beer.  Later we all had dinner at the reataurant downstairs together.
After a good meal we all went back to our rooms and agreed to get up
early, around 8AM, to start our next leg of the trip.

When we got up the sky was not looking very nice.  We rode down the
street to the grocery store to get some food for the road.  After
stocking up on energy bars, and dried fruit we left for Aberfoyle.

We continued along route 7 and encountered our first few hills of the
trip.  After riding over some of the hills in Ireland Vicki and I were
accustomed to the weight of the bikes and the effort needed to ride
over a hill.  Dan and Wende had not experienced this yet and for them
it was really tough.  On the steeper sections both of them would get
caught in the wrong gear or already at their limit.  We later got in
the habit of calling out hidden hills or steep inclines, which Vicki and I
would sometimes do lovingly later on.  This day was really tough.
After about an hour of overcast skies the rain finally came.  We got
really wet and really cold.  We stopped at a place for lunch, Dan
bought some waterproof boots to cover his shoes while riding.  We were
all really cold and wet, but the tea and meat pies really helped.
After a long lunch we continued on in the rain for another few hours.
We finally arrived in Aberfoyle.

Since it was still early we went to a wool shop first. It turned out
to just be a store for tourists.  I'm not sure the wool was even from
Scotland.  We left and went to find a place to spend the night.  For
Vicki and I finding places to stay had been relatively easy.  We
hadn't booked places in advance very often and almost always found a
room at the first place we asked.  This was not true when travelling
with 4 people.  The first place we tried only had one room.  Then
Vicki asked at one inn while I asked at another.  Both were fully
booked.  We eventually went to the tourist info and asked them about
where to stay.  They found a B&B for us and we were very relieved.
Before this I had never considered that we might not be able to find
a place to stay the night.  I was really worried that we'd have to
split or wild camp somewhere.  Luckily it all worked out.

That night we went to a cool stone grill restaurant.  They had some
really hot stones that they put some big slabs of lamb or steak and
the stone cooked the meat.  It was really good and then we got to
introduce Wende and Dan to Sticky Toffee Pudding.  Dan somehow
convinced the waitress to let him keep a pint glass.  It would become
one of the many glasses Dan would carry around Scotland and then home
to Buffalo.

The next day, we had a nice breakfast at the B&B then headed off for
our next destination, Strathyre.  The first part of the day was really
tough.  There were some really big hills and then the path switched
from paved to dirt.  The path went through the forest avoiding the
highway.  There were some pretty waterfalls and lakes along the way.
We stopped and took lots of pictures.  At one point I decided to take
a shortcut, which lead us out onto the highway (not what I was
expecting) then back around to a rest/viewing area.  From there we
rejoined the trail.  At the bottom of the lake I thought we could do a
hike to get to an area of interest, but we soon lost interest since it
was a steep climb up slipper muddy slopes with no indication that we
were even going the right way.  Trust in my naviagation skills wasn't
at its highest.

The route continued along a lake then joined a stream.  We stopped to
take pictures of miniture horses and the scenery.  We got to Strathyre
and decided to camp since we had stayed in B&B's for the first few
nights.  Vicki and I picked a spot and set up our tent.  Wende and
Dan set up their tent near ours, decided that something was wrong with
that spot, and then carried their tent 100 meters away to a spot more
suitable to them.  We walked around the town, there wasn't too much, a
few inns and a pub.  We went to the only restaurant that was open and
had some beers.  We later ended up having some food as well.  It was
probably lamb and definitely had potatoes.

Camping was fine.  I had suggested that Wende and Dan bring mats to
sleep on and pillows.  I should have probably suggested to buy a 3
person tent but we hadn't even discovered that for ourselves.  Luckily
it wasn't rainy and only a little chilly.  So we packed everything
mostly dry and set off for Killin.

We saw a lot of bikers on the route to Killin.  I think many were
staying at the campsite with us and were just doing a day trip.
Killin was pretty close only about 20Km and was kind of a rest day for
us after the two long hill days.  The route to Killin was pretty nice
except for the loose gravel near the end of the ride.  Killin was a
cute little town along a river.  The river flowed over some large
rocks and under a stone bridge.  There was one pub at the end of the
bridge that we came from and across the bridge was the rest of the
town.  We found an inn and took the last available rooms.  They might
have been the last rooms in the whole town.

We wandered the town in the afternoon and did some shopping.  Vicki
and I bought a bunch of post cards, Wende and Dan bought some hiking
boots.  For some reason they both wore their worst shoes, maybe they
had intended on getting rid of them the whole time.  We made a
reservation at the restaurant across from our B&B.  The dinner there
was really good.  Probably lamb and potatoes.  After dinner we walked
back across the bridge to go to the pub where there was a guitarist
playing.

He was playing older rock songs.  We were expecting something like the
Irish trad music.  He took some requests.  Eventually my mom got tired
and went back to the B&B.  Vicki and I stayed even though we knew we
had a very long ride tomorrow.  We got a few more drinks. An
Irish/Romanian couple sat with us and tought us how to drink Whiskey
(Irish way) as well as the difference between Whisky and Whiskey.
Later a guy in traditional scottish clothes showed up and everyone
started dancing and singing.  It was a really fun night and we
probably stayed way to late, but the party was still going on after we
left.

The next day we began the ride to Pitlochry.  Since Wende had made a
non-refundable booking, we decided to push ourselves and make it to
Pitlochry.  The first part of the route followed the lake to the east.
The road had lots of rolling hills so we weren't making significant
progress.  Coming the opposite way of us seemed to be a classic car
parade.  There were many old convertibles and coupes.  After coming
over one of the hills I got a puncture. I told Vicki to catch my Mom
and Dan who were riding in front of us and tell them.  I patched the
tube and caught up.  They had stopped at a shop and waited.  We
continued on ... // TODO
